Hello again!
I'm excited you're here.
We have so much to discuss.
Previously, we covered the uses
and benefits of the NIST CSF.
In this video, we'll
focus specifically on
the five core functions of
the NIST CSF framework.
Let's get started.
NIST CSF focuses on five
core functions: identify,
protect, detect,
respond, and recover.
These core functions help
organizations manage
cybersecurity risks,
implement risk
management strategies,
and learn from
previous mistakes.
Basically, when it comes
to security operations,
NIST CSF functions are
key for making sure
an organization is
protected against
potential threats,
risks, and vulnerabilities.
So let's take a little
time to explore how
each function can be used to
improve an
organization's security.
The first core function is
identify, which is related
to the management of
cybersecurity risk
and its effect on
an organization's
people and assets.
For example, as a
security analyst,
you may be asked to monitor
systems and devices in
your organization's internal
network to identify
potential security issues
The second core function is
protect, which is the strategy
used to protect an organization
through the implementation
of policies,
procedures, training,
and tools that help mitigate
cybersecurity threats.
For example, as a
security analyst,
you and your team
might encounter
new and unfamiliar
threats and attacks.
For this reason, studying
historical data and
making improvements to policies
and procedures is essential.
The third core function
is detect, which
means identifying potential
security incidents
and improving monitoring
capabilities to
increase the speed and
efficiency of detections.
For example, as an analyst,
you might be asked to review
a new security tool's setup to
make sure it's flagging low,
medium, or high risk,
and then alerting the
security team about
any potential threats
or incidents.
The fourth function is
respond, which means making
sure that the proper procedures
are used to contain,
neutralize,
and analyze security
incidents, and
implement improvements
to the security process.
As an analyst, you could be
working with a team
to collect and
organize data to document
an incident and suggest
improvements to processes to
prevent the incident
from happening again.
The fifth core function is
recover, which is the process of
returning affected systems
back to normal operation.
For example, as an
entry-level security analyst,
you might work with
your security team
to restore systems,
data, and assets, such as
financial or legal
files, that have
been affected by an
incident like a breach.
We've covered a lot of
information in this video.
Hopefully, it helped you
understand the value
of learning about
the NIST CSF and its
five core functions.
From proactive to reactive
measures, all five functions are
essential for making sure
that an organization
has effective security
strategies in place.
Security incidents
are going to happen,
but an organization must have
the ability to
quickly recover from
any damage caused by an incident
to minimize their level of risk.
Coming up, we'll discuss
security principles that
work hand-in-hand with
NIST frameworks
and the CIA triad
to help protect critical
data and assets.